M Prestige you can't spell that without
MSI what we've got right here today is
the MSI Prestige 16 AI Evo and it looks
like it could be a real good one so huge
thanks to MSI for sponsoring this video
and let's get right into it got a quick
guide for charging we have a 100 W brick
that's actually quite nice and small
maybe gallium nitride and it is
delivering that 100 wats over USB type-c
which I do really like to see that means
that if say you forget this you can just
plug in your laptop to your phone
charger and charge it that way now what
you might have noticed is that this says
AI in the name and it isn't complete
bogus it has Intel's new core Ultra
chips inside of it which has a neural
Computing chip which allows it to just
like accelerate AI workloads such as
stable diffusion even just like AI
blurring the windows windows so they use
less power when it's doing like
transparency and stuff like that it is
is actually kind of useful one thing a
lot of notebooks these days get wrong
especially when they're trying to be
thin and light is the I/O and
fortunately MSI has not made that
mistake here on the right hand side we
have a 3.5 mm headphone microphone combo
Jack fullsize SD card rear every
photographer is super stoked to about
that one and a fullsize ethernet port on
the back we have fullsize HDMI love to
see that USB type A and two Thunderbolt
4 ports and on the right hand side we
have a Kensington lock and that is it
just couple of fins MSI in their notes
for this says that it's ultra thin and
ultra light but it looks not the most
thin I'm kind of curious oh I see what's
happening here this is one of those ones
where the laptop itself is actually
pretty thin but they have these feet
down on the bottom so that has nice and
lots of room for the air intake so I'm
guessing that the thermal performance is
pretty good and that's why when I just
had it on the table it seemed kind of
thick even though it actually is right
around 19 mm thick and that is not what
I would consider ultra thin but at the
same time I think that it's a good
compromise because it is a tiny bit
thicker but also like full size ethernet
fulls size HDMI I think a lot of you
guys know which one you would rather
have between thin and usable IO MSI
claims The Prestige 16 is 3.3 lb let's
see how this one is 3.44 not bad not bad
I'm guessing we have just a little bit
extra Ram or something the actual
weights of things can change a fair bit
from config to config like you get this
with a 4070 I imagine that's adding an
extra like 3 400 G to it the overall
look of the prestige 16 is quite nice it
does have that professional feel it does
have actually reefing on it pretty hard
right now and it has except exeptional
chassis rigidity that's being provided
by an aluminum and magnesium blend for
the chassis is it fingerprint resistant
though that's yeah that's pretty good
I'm like half a greasy one right now and
this is yeah you have to shine it
straight into the light to see those
fingerprints so good job there MSI the
chassis around the keyboard and the
trackpad is also really nice and firm
there's a little bit of a soft spot over
here at the same time that's pad area so
I'm not super duper concerned about that
msi's build quality in their laptops has
just completely changed over the last
couple of years and I'm really impressed
with just how wellb built this thing is
this has an OLED panel I don't even need
to look at my notes to tell you that
much just using my eyeballs I can pretty
easily tell you that this is a fantastic
looking display but our Labs did have a
sniff of it and it's actually kind of
interesting first of all it is quite
good but what's interesting is that in
SDR the accuracy of the panel is
actually pretty bad with an average
Delta e of 4.8 which is way higher than
the two that we would expect for
professional work which is what this is
aimed at everything's a lot more vibrant
than it should be and we weren't able to
find any obvious ways to stop that but
if you just turn on HDR okay that just
looks way better so you enable HDR and
it's quite accurate in HDR right around
that 2 that we expect of the Delta e but
turning on HDR also makes it way more
accurate in SDR for some reason so
there's not really any reason to not
just turn on HDR and windows cuz then
the color mapping of this display in all
of your content is just way better why
that is I don't know but it's just one
click right here and you're good also
the peak brightness of this display is
600 nits so that's bright enough that
you might be able to go outside and work
on this although it is quite shiny and
really it's an OLED so where it's really
really going to shine is in dark rooms
where you can just see those completely
black blacks it's just oh darn no
touchcreen though that's unfortunate but
what is fortunate is that in here we
have an Intel Core Ultra 7 155h in this
one right here you can go up to an ultra
9 in this one we have 16 cores so that's
six performance cores eight efficiency
and a total of 22 threads this thing
goes up to 4.8 GHz which is just ripping
fast also quite fast 6,400 megga
transfer pers second ram 32 GB of the
stuff is in here it does say it's a row
of chips so chances are we can't upgrade
that in the future but such is a thin
and light one thing we just realized
that is strange is that if you have six
performance cores and eight efficiency
cores that is 14 cores but it says that
it has 16 and that's because it also has
two ultra low power efficiency cores
which are honestly I don't really know
what those do besides use way less power
than the already efficient cores but
good job Intel for storage we have 1 tab
Wi-Fi it's a killer Wi-Fi 7 cards so
that should be ripping fast if your
router is able to do Wi-Fi 7 GPU it's
Intel arc graphics that's built onto the
chip now this is available with up to a
4070 so if you want to do less like
photo editing and more hardcore video
editing I might suggest that you go for
the 4060 or the 4070 version of this
although we weren't able to test those
so maybe just look up how good it is
somewhere else also we have Intel's npu
this is dedicated to accelerating AI
tasks so doing stuff like uh stable
diffusion in you can do different
stuff within Lightroom classic and just
general AI things how is the
keyboard
the keyboard overall is pretty decent I
would give it maybe like a B minus
somewhere around there it's been a real
sore point for MSI for years and years
and it has gotten a lot better as they
have improved the chassis rigidity but
it still isn't quite there like if you
look the key stability if I push on the
side isn't fantastic there's a lot of
deflection from the key before it starts
to actuate and that can hurt your speed
and your accuracy and there's definitely
some inconsistencies like on hours the J
key takes less Force to press than the K
key maybe something like a 15% variance
or something like that when you normally
expect more like 10 or five on a really
high-end laptop that said though after a
while I was able to get mostly used to
it and some of those
inconsistencies do still rear their
heads as a little bit of not the
accuracy that that I would expect to
have on a keyboard like this but a lot
of you might trade that for the
inclusion of a numpad on the right A lot
of people I know and like myself when
I'm using solid works absolutely love
having a numpad over here and that can
be the make or break of if you want this
laptop for your actual professional job
one area though where MSI has just
knocked it out of the park on this is
the trackpad now it is over to the left
to align it with the keyboard and not
the numpad which I do dig it's glass
topped it's accurate it's really nice
and large and overall just no complaints
about the trackpad good job there all
right so I'm gaming at 1080p here first
of all rocket League looks absolutely
fantastic on this OLED monitor it is 60
HZ but OLED has super quick response
times which does mean that things look
absolutely fantastic and it should play
really quite well although it's not the
best gaming experience that I've ever
had one thing for performance that's
nice that MSI has here is the MSI AI
engine so that smartly just changes
between your various power modes
depending on what you're doing and
that's great because I've seen the data
from a bunch of different companies and
only like 10% of people actually take
the time to go like Extreme Performance
mode balance silence super battery and
stuff like that most people never look
at that ever and having it just be AI
engine it figures it out for you and
it's probably mostly really quite good
we've had rocket Leo for like five or so
minutes let's see how hot she's getting
46 so that's pretty borderline if I'm
honest it looks like that the keys
themselves are in the 42 range which is
okayish although if we look at right up
at the top here this aluminum is
conducting quite a bit of heat that's uh
48 it'll take a while to burn you but
that will burn you so don't uh don't
hold your hand here while it's rendering
even though this might be a little bit
hotter than I wanted it is at least not
very loud like I don't know if you can
hear it right now but I barely can and
like holding it up like this you can
hear a bit from the
bottom but on the desk the amount of
noise that the fans are making is really
quite
[Music]
reasonable okay all right that's
respectable it's not the loudest laptop
that I've ever heard but at the same
time staging is good Clarity is good and
they haven't just like cranked up the
volume to where the poor speakers
distort and stuff it's all nice and
clear even if there isn't a whole lot of
Base in there crab Rave is also just so
good for showing off how Fantastic oleds
look like look at that pitch black that
is nighttime right there now on to the
webcam so we have a 1080p webcam up here
and the first thing that I really like
is this little switch right here you can
just hard disable it I really really
appreciate these kind of little switches
so that you know for sure that your
webcam is not looking at you when you
don't want it to coming in here
though it looks fine it's kind of noisy
but not too bad but speaking of noisy
gentlemen we now have two laptops
playing 10 hours of construction sounds
now MSI says that their AI noise
cancellation Pro works really quite well
so let's uh just turn that on for a bit
and maybe it sounds way better or maybe
it doesn't we'll find out in a second
damn that worked really well that is
sick I do have to say MSI good job on
the AI noise cancelling now uh I do have
a little surprise for you guys second
laptop it's the same thing but 3 in
smaller a it's so
cute and also like quite nice it really
does achieve the be being very thin and
very light that MSI said that the 16 is
but 16 is pretty large 13 is much more
manageable but you are giving up things
like there's no ethernet there's no
fullsize SD card reader but if what
you're looking for is something that's
just super duper nice and
thin Prestige 13 13 also has an OLED
display it has a keyboard that
is quite similar to the 16 slightly
smaller touchpad but I'm not too
concerned about with that and it also
has a 75w battery which in a laptop of
this size is very very impressive we
also have a 99 W hour in this one but
that's kind of what you expect in a 16in
75 W hours is really really good in a 13
in eight Phillips head screws later all
of which are the same size and
wow that's where the GPU
goes wow there's just nothing there
normally you see like you know the heat
pipes going over to another fan so that
your CPU has a higher TDP but they're
just like no the there's there's a gap
now the good news in here is that we
have two SSD slots so we have the one TB
from the factory and if you want to
upgrade it there's another one that is
just nice and free is it free when you
get a GPU I'm not entirely sure but uh
it is without the GPU we know that much
also unfortunately the ram is soldered
down right here which does allow you to
have higher speeds but
you can't upgrade it in the future so
make sure you get enough when you
purchase the laptop the real star of the
show in here is the 99.9 wat hour
battery now that is just a hair under
what you're allowed to take on a plane
and it gets us over 10 hours of battery
life which you might be thinking uh we
don't even have a dedicated GPU why
isn't it more than that and that's
largely down to the OLED panel oleds
just suck back battery life and that's
why we need this AB absolutely massive
thing to compensate for that so that you
can have those just actually stunning
visuals that it is able to provide now
of course this video is sponsored so
take my recommendation with a grain of
salt but I'm actually quite impressed
with the price the config that we have
right here 1 TB SSD 32 GB of RAM and
that fantastic 4K OLED panel is $1,00 us
which for that is actually quite good if
you want something a little bit less
than 13in comes in at a starting price
of $1050 and it can go up from there and
of course this right here if you want to
outfit it with a 4060 or 4070 it can get
pretty pricey pretty fast but this
configurate here
particularly I am quite impressed with
and of course I'm impressed with MSI for
sponsoring this video huge thanks guys
for watching hit like get subscribed and
just have a great old day